hello everybody this is Paul thank you
for watching this video tutorial today
today's lesson is going to be about
different types of numbers now the first
type of number is the natural or the
counting number now like the name
counting suggests these are numbers that
you count with 1 2 3 4 and so on the
next type of number would be the whole
number now the whole number contains all
the counting numbers plus it also
contains the numbers 0 now if we wanted
to look at the counting numbers in the
whole numbers in a diagram we could
simply draw a circle here and say
everything inside this circle are the
counting numbers and then a little bit
bigger circle right here and everything
inside that circle would be the whole
numbers it's a little bigger because it
contains the 0 the next important type
of number is the integer the integers
contain all of the whole numbers 0 1 2
and so on in addition to the whole
numbers the integers also include the
negative counting numbers minus 1 minus
2 and so on going back to the diagram we
can simply draw a circle and closing the
two previous circles that I drew and
I'll put an eye in there showing that
anything inside this circle is an
integer next we have rational numbers
rational numbers are numbers that can be
written as a ratio of two integers for
instance minus five over four one-third
two-fifths these are all examples of
rational numbers going back to the
diagram we can draw one more circle and
this circle represents all the rational
numbers now the rational numbers contain
all of the integers whole numbers and
counting numbers in addition to those it
contains numbers that can be written as
ratios that don't fall into these
smaller circles now some of you may be
wondering how is it that rational
numbers contain all integers since all
the rational numbers I wrote here are
fractions and the answer is any of the
integers can be written as a ratio of
two numbers the reason why is anything
for instance negative two divided by one
is simply negative two and you can do
this to any of the integers and by doing
this you're writing it as a ratio of two
integers therefore the rational numbers
contain all integers the next type of
number is the irrational number now kind
of like the name suggests irrational
basically means not a ratio it cannot be
written as a ratio of two integers so
some examples of irrational numbers are
pi which is 3.14 and so on another
number that's used later on in math is E
and E has the value of 2.718 and so on
other numbers that are irrational our
numbers such as square root of 2
square root of 3 square root of 5 those
are a few examples of irrational numbers
none of these numbers can be written as
a ratio of two integers and since the
irrational numbers cannot be written as
a ratio of two integers we can't include
them as a bigger circle around these
other circles so instead I'm going to
dress draw like a little box over here
and this box represents all of the
irrational numbers the irrational
numbers do not contain any of the
numbers in the rational circle however
the irrational and the rational numbers
and all of the things that the rational
numbers contain are connected in some
sense and that is the group of all the
irrational and rational numbers together
are known as the real numbers now the
real numbers can be written or displayed
rather on a number line let me actually
write this number line down here or
there's a little more room basically
each one of these tick marks represents
an integer value here's the negative
ones negative one sorry my scale is a
little bit off my spaces aren't exactly
spaced evenly like they should be but
hopefully you can forgive me
and basically all of the irrational
numbers and the rational numbers and all
of its contents can all be written on
the real number line so for instance pi
would go right about here 3.14 because
this is 4 that's 3 that's 4 3.14
somewhere in between that would
represent pi of course 1 is here
negative 2 is here those are fairly
obvious any of these any of these
numbers right here
can be represented as a point on a
number line so that brings us to the
last type of number and really all I
want to say about the last type of
number that number is an imaginary
number now I'll go ahead and cover the
imaginary numbers a little bit more in a
later tutorial but right now all I want
you to know about imaginary numbers is
that they do not they do not go on the
real number line that is this number
line that I drew earlier there's no
point on this number line that can
represent an imaginary number and I'll
get into imaginary numbers later like I
said so basically that's all I really
want you to know about imaginary numbers
right now is they are not real numbers
that can be represented on a number line
that will be the end of this tutorial I
hope you've enjoyed the tutorial if if
you liked it I hope that you will click
like on the like link and I'll be going
ahead and making a few more video
tutorials and if there's anything
specific that you want me to cover in
math please let me know and I will try
to make a video on that subject for you
so this is the end of the tutorial thank
you and have a great day